---

copyright:
  years: 2020, 2021
lastupdated: "2021-05-10"

subcollection: discovery-data

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:important: .important}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:download: .download}
{:hide-dashboard: .hide-dashboard}
{:apikey: data-credential-placeholder='apikey'} 
{:url: data-credential-placeholder='url'}
{:curl: .ph data-hd-programlang='curl'}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:ruby: .ph data-hd-programlang='ruby'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}
{:go: .ph data-hd-programlang='go'}

# How your data source is processed
{: #index-overview}

When you connect to a data source, {{site.data.keyword.discoveryshort}} *processes* the information from the data source to create a *collection*.
{: shortdesc}

The goal of processing a data source is to identify meaningful information and tag it as it is added to the collection so it is easier to find and retrieve the information later.

The processing that is applied to all data sources includes the following steps:

- Identify individual documents in the data source
- Find fields in the documents
- Index the fields

You can see a list of the fields that were indexed from the *Manage fields* page.

1.  Go to the *Manage collections* page, and then choose the collection. 

    Make sure that the processing of the collection is finished first. The Activity page shows the processing status.
1.  Click the *Manage fields* tab.

The purpose of the fields is self-explanatory given their field names. 

What is not obvious is the importance of the `text` field. The `text` field typically contains the main body of text from the original document. Most of the content that is returned in search results originates from this one field. How to parse and return only relevant chunks of information from this field is determined by the query result configuration that is used by the project. For more information, see [Previewing the default query results](/docs/discovery-data?topic=discovery-data-query-results).

<!--### Fields that are indexed by default
{: #index-overview-default-fields}

The following fields make up the base set of fields that {{site.data.keyword.discoveryshort}} is designed to recognize and index by default.

| Field | Definition |
|-------|------------|
| answer | In a question-and-answer pair, the answer to the question. |
| author | Name of the author (or authors). |
| footer | Information that is displayed at the end of the page, such as a copyright or confidentiality statement. |
| header | Information that is displayed at the beginning of every page, such as a running title. |
| image |	An image or diagram. |
| question | The question in a question-and-answer pair. |
| subtitle | The secondary title in a document, such as a chapter or section title. |
| table |	A table that shows information in a structured format. |
| table_of_contents | A table of contents that is sometimes included at the start of a document. |
| text | The standard copy text, including paragraphs, definitions, or any set of words that is not a title, part of a table, answer, author, subtitle, header, or footer. |
| title | The main title of the document. |
{: caption="Fields that are indexed by default" caption-side="top"}
-->
## More processing adds more fields
{: #index-overview-more}

More processing is applied automatically that differs based on the project type and on the document type.

When processes run on documents in a collection, extra fields are added to store information that is associated with the process. For example, when the Entities enrichment is applied to a collection, it starts a process that adds fields with names that begin with `enriched_text.entities` to the documents in the collection. 

Some project types automatically enrich documents as they are added to a collection in the project. For more information about the enrichments that are applied by default, see [Default project settings](/docs/discovery-data?topic=discovery-data-project-defaults).

The following list describes some of the indexed fields that are generated:

- `enriched_html.tables`: Generated when the Table Understanding enrichment is applied to a collection.
- `enriched_html.contract`: Generated by the pretrained Contract SDU model that is applied automatically to any collection that you add to a Document Retrieval for Contract project type.
- `enriched_text`: Generated when prebuilt enrichments are applied to a collection.
- `html`: The HTML field is generated under the following conditions:

  - If you crawl a website, this field is generated along with the `text` field.
  - If you use the Smart Document Understanding tool to annotate a collection, the document representation is indexed in the `html` field.
  - If you use the Smart Document Understanding tool to apply a pretrained model to a collection, the document representation is indexed both in the `html` field and `text` field.

  When you upload an HTML file, the content is indexed in the `text` field. No `html` field is created.
  {: note}
- `segment_metadata`: Generated when you split a document. The metadata field includes the parent document ID, the segment number, and the total number of segments that were created from the parent document. Each resulting segment of the original document can contain different information. For example, if you split the document based on the subtitle field, the first segment might contain only a title field. The next segment might contain a subtitle and a text field. The third might contain a subtitle field, a text field, and a footer field.

Fields with names that contain a period (.) represent nested fields. For example, the `enriched_text.entities` nested field is stored in the JSON structure as follows:

```json
"enriched_text": [
			{
				"entities": [
          {}
        ]
      }
]
```
{: codeblock}

If you use the Smart Document Understanding tool to add custom fields, the custom fields are represented in the index as root-level fields. For example, if you add a field named `procedure`, it is represented in the JSON file as follows:

```json
"procedure": [
]
```
{: codeblock}

